---
title: My on-again-off-again relationship with AI assistants
description:
date: 2025-03-31T06:18-0400
tags:
  - AI
  - GitHub Copilot
  - Productivity
flags:
verse:
prose: true
---

For the past few years, I have been paying on and off for ChatGPT and Claude. I
will read an interesting story about how someone transformed their work with AI,
then sign up for a premium plan for one month. I spend a few days actively
engaging with the AI and then quickly fall off. I go weeks without chatting with
the assistant and then cancel before the month is up.

There is a lot of smoke in the work-productivity AI space. I believe there is
(probably) fire there somewhere. But I haven't been able to find it.

Beyond one-off questions that require more nuance than a search on StackOverflow
or quick chats about naming things^[A famously hard problem], I struggle to find
many use cases for an AI assistant. I don't know if that is a result of how I
think and work or a limitation of the product. But it's not working for me.

GitHub Copilot is a little different. It continues to churn in the background
while I code, and I frequently utilize its autocompletions. Sometimes the
refactors are usable, but others they are way off. I have been experimenting
with the more "agentic" features, but I'm finding that reviewing the generated
code takes a comparable amount of time to writing it myself. And writing code is
more fun than reviewing.

I find AI assistants useful, just less so than other folks online. I'm glad to
have them as an option^[I am especially thankful for the free access to GitHub
Copilot that I am granted every month. I don't know what I did to qualify for
this program and at this point am afraid to ask!] but am still on the lookout
for a reason to pay $20/month for a premium plan. If that all resonants and you
have some suggestions, please reach out. I can be convinced!
