---
title: "SoloDark Together: Session 1"
description:
  Retelling the first session playing the SoloDark rules for Shadowdark with two
  players
date: 2025-04-23T06:00-0400
verse:
tags:
  - Adventure Games
  - Shadowdark
  - SoloDark
---

My brother and I play D&D regularly over Discord. Recently we decided to try
_Shadowdark_ but with neither of us as the GM. We're using the free
[_SoloDark_ rules](https://www.thearcanelibrary.com/products/solodark-solo-rules-for-shadowdark-rpg-pdf)
alongside the standard _Shadowdark_ rules combined with random tables from the
_Dungeon Master's Guide_, _Maze Rats_, and _Cairn_.

## Session recap

I play as Ardo, a halfling wizard, and my brother as Radovan, a goblin priest.
We're both undersized and weak which _should_ affect our strategy.

We decided together to start in a dungeon and then work our way back to
civilization if we survive. We rolled up "The Crypt of the Thieving Horde" from
_SoloDark_, and the name alone gave use a bunch of ideas. We consulted the
Oracle—a mechanic in _SoloDark_ for answering yes/no questions—and learned that
that we were not there willingly and knew nothing about the Thieving Horde. We
decided that we were in debt and the collectors were forcing our hand to find
treasure and fast. Hopefully the Crypt would be the solution to our problems!

By rolling tables in the _DMG_, we found that the first room was a crypt for
less important burials with exits on each wall that contained a monster
searching for sanctuary. We imagined a wild boar that was fleeing some other
terror had found it's way into the crypt and was snuffling among the sarcophagi.
Radovan tried to shepherd it out the entrance, but the boar was not interested
in returning to the wild. It wasn't hostile to us, so we decided to ignore it
and more on. Radovan took the lead while Ardo followed with the torch.

Through a wooden door to our right, we found a hallway filled with a spiderwebs.
"Are there spiders, Oracle?" We rolled a 20: the outcome is the most extreme
version possible. The webs are filled with thousands of small spiders. Radovan
tried to light the nearest webs with our torch when we heart a small clicking
voice cry "No, not our webs!". I had rolled on an NPC reaction table from
_Cairn_ and learned that these spiders were kind.

We told them we were looking for treasure and they eagerly brought us to a large
ball of web suspended in the air. We unwrapped it, hoping for a large gem, but
instead found a rat. The spiders were eager to see our reaction to their
"treasure" so we feigned enthusiasm while insisting that they keep it.

The only other exit was an iron door at the other end of the room. We had a long
discussion about whether the door itself was treasure enough for first dungeon
dive (that much iron would surely be valuable to the blacksmith in town). We
learned from the Oracle that we didn't have sufficient tools to unhinge the
door, so we decided to go through it instead. On the other side we found a
descending staircase that led to a... dead end.

That was strange. Why would there be an iron door that led to nowhere? Radovan
investigated and found a secret switch that opened the hidden door. Two things
greeted us as the door opened: a robing room for priests to prepare for burial
rituals, and a spear flung by a group of five kobolds. The spear clattered off
the while and we decided to flee up the stairs and hope for advantage with high
ground. Ardo wounded one kobold with a magic missile as they fled. The following
turn Radovan took a spear to the gut and fell to the ground dying. Rolling the
death timer, we learned that he had two turns to live. Ardo finished the turn by
dropping the torch (which had 1 turn left) and pulling Radovan through the iron
door.

Ardo was forced with a decision: try to save Radovan from the kobolds or flee
for his life. He chose the former and barred the door in the pitch black.^[We
had decided that Radovan was conscious despite his state (and later learned that
that was contrary to the Shadowdark rules). He asked the spiders to help by
lighting a torch. They happily agreed to try, swarming Radovan and retrieving
his flint and steel. They failed a DC 18, but the subplot added an additional
level of chaos to the scene.] He failed the contested strength check on the
kobolds' turn and their glowing red eyes burst into the room. Two turns to save
Radovan and probably Ardo's lives.

Ardo's last-ditch effort was to cast Sleep. He rolled a natural 20 (critical
success!) and put all of the kobolds, spiders, and Radovan to sleep. There was a
brief celebration before Radovan's death timer ticked down: one turn to save his
life. Ardo probably should have rolled with disadvantage on the stabilize check
since we were in the dark, but the moment was suspenseful enough. I shook the
die in my hand for a long time, afraid of opening the door to Shroedinger's cat.

I rolled a 14, which combined with my INT modifier was enough to succeed against
the DC 15. Radovan was saved! After stabilizing, he cast Heal Wounds and rolled
a natural 20—doubling the spells effectiveness. Radovan went from the verge of
death to fully healed in the span of one turn.

We dispatched of the sleeping Kobolds but saved a set of uniforms each (+1 XP)
in the hopes that they will come in handy later.

## Reflections

That was the most suspenseful session that I have had... maybe ever. I think it
was a combination of the system, the situation we found ourselves in, and the
rolls that we made. I'm looking forward to playing more and seeing if we can
create more moments like that.

## Rule review

- Rolling on the NPC Reaction table from _Cairn_ was funny (thousands of kind
  spiders?) but probably the wrong choice
- Dying players are unconscious
- Dying players roll a d20 every turn of their death timer. On a 20, they
  stablize with 1 HP.
- In total darkness, players have disadvantage on most things
