---
title: Vibe coding is slop coding
description:
  Vibe coding is a popular term for AI-driven software development, but it fails
  to describe the product. Slop coding is an alternative that describes both
  process and product.
date: 2025-11-10T06:27-0400
tags:
  - Articles
  - AI
  - Software Engineering
flags:
  - DRAFT
verse:
prose: true
---

Vibe coding has become the _de facto_ term for AI-driven software development.
Some flavor it as spec-driven development (SpecDD) or classic test-driven
development (TDD). In either case it is the AI that is driving; the actor
navigates while the spec docs or tests serve as guide-rails. The term "vibe
coding" describes the process by which code was generated, but it does not
describe the product of that process. A term that adequately conveys _what_ was
created in addition to _how_ would be more useful. "**Slop coding**" is a better
alternative to vibe coding because it captures both the process and product.
Slop coding builds on the current definition of "AI slop", draws on positive
examples of slop as controlled disorder, and serves as a reminder of
questionable quality.

## AI slop

AI slop is a term for low-quality and low-effort content generated by AI. Coined
in the last few years, it is usually used to label images or videos on social
media. The term communicates that the producer did not put significant time into
the process nor effort into the product. That describes AI-driven software
development. It also invites the consumer and producer to question the quality
of the product. This is a good thing, and a practice that we should be doing
with content regularly. Labelling an artifact as AI slop starts a conversation
about the product explicitly and the process implicitly. Slop coding builds on
AI slop regarding the product while referring to the process.

## Slop can be good

Outside of the AI context, slop can have both positive and useful connotations.
A slop sink or utility sink is helpful for cleaning and rinsing. A slop room or
mud room is a place to remove dirty boots and clothing before entering a home.
In schools, a teacher might use "sloppy copy" to refer to a student's rough
draft. In these examples slop is disorder that must be contained to preserve
order elsewhere. Slop captures a place where it is okay to be messy. Think of
young children in art class who end the lesson with paint all over their hands,
smock, table, and floor. This is good. When disorder is expected and contained,
it can be an important part of the development process. Understood this way,
sloppy code is the first phase of "make it work, make it right, make it fast."
Slop coding can be the messy first step in developing a quality software
product.

## Questionable quality

It can only be the first step because AI-driven software development generates
code of questionable quality. A few iterations with the model may result in
working code, but the actor may have no idea how it works. The quality could be
high or it could be low. And the reality is probably somewhere on that spectrum
for each component of the software. There are many ways to solve a given
problem, which greater degrees of clarity, efficiency, and resiliency. So like
Schroedinger's cat, the product of AI-driven software development cannot be
described as high or low quality. The only way to accurately determine quality
is to question the code through inspection. That step is crucial to code quality
and product health. Code must be reviewed by someone who understands the current
system, its limitations, and future plans. Referring to the process as slop
coding and the product as slop code is a reminder that the quality is unknown
and needs to be evaluated first.

## Slop coding

Vibe coding is a fun term for the process of building with AI. It has enabled
people of greater and lesser technical abilities to create software that was not
previously possible within the constraints. While focusing on the process, vibe
coding fails to describe the product. Slop coding should be preferred as an
alternative that describes both the process and the product.

Slop coding is an AI-driven software development technique for creating
software. The resulting slop code serves as a rough draft for future iteration
and refinement. When paired with other quality-assessment techniques, it can be
a valuable part of the software-development process.
